this video is brought to you by
Squarespace stick around until the end
of the video to find out more including
how to sign up for our Squarespace
powered newsletter and if you'd like to
help us keep making queer content like
this on YouTube and even see some of
these videos up to 6 months in advance
including videos covering good Omens
Sandman revolutionary girl Lenna and
Evangelion you can sign up for our
patreon Linked In the
description
[Music]
on a scorching day in rural Japan we
find ourselves in the midst of a
chilling tale where two boys yoshiki and
yaru seek Solace from the Relentless
Heat by indulging in frozen treats from
a quaint local store Outdoors amidst
their laughter a sudden unease grips
yoshiki prompting him to utter these
haunted words to his
friend you ain't the real iaru are you
iaru initially taken aback undergos a
startling transformation as his human
facade Fades away revealing the Demonic
spiritual entity lurking within however
instead of unleashing his malevolence
upon yoshiki hearu surprises us all by
embracing his friend pleading with him
not to reveal his true nature you see
this is the first time this new iaru has
experienced Life as a human even if he's
borrowing the old hikaru's form his
feelings for yoshiki are undeniably
genuine the real iaru may be lost but
yoshiki consumed by grief and fear
accepts this new Hikaru into his
life for he cannot bear to be without
his friend thus Begins the spine
tingling horror manga the summer Hikaru
died by the mangaka
mumen it debuted in August of 2021 and
has enjoyed resounding Commercial
Success despite the unease it provokes
among commentators within the medium who
have a hard time categorizing it is it a
BL manga is it horror can it possibly be
both the difficulty in classifying the
genre of this story itself puts us at an
interesting juncture with gay boys being
a genre all to their own perhaps this
has set a precedent for gay characters
being unable to appear in other genres
does the inclusion of a gay character
automatically facilitate a gay story it
seems that among Publishers and critics
this may very well be the case meaning
that when a horror story about one or
possibly more gay characters becomes a
sensation there's a reluctance to
discuss it because it's unclear whether
whether it ought to be judged on its
merits as horror or as be this speaks to
a common complaint among non-binary
people and some trans people as well why
does the inability to sort things into
one of two categories generates so much
confusion is it gay or straight are they
a man or a
woman in either case many people won't
neatly fit into either of these groups
and it's just as incorrect to force
people into these categories as it is to
Omit people altogether because they
can't pass similarly it's also wrong to
look at the summer hi could who died in
the same way genre classification limits
the scope of what a story can be and is
often biased to what the hegemonistic
majority considers normal I wouldn't
take it as a good sign either if it were
classified as a cross genre for the same
reason that we don't consider straight
horror to be a genre
boys kissing and scary do not need to be
two different
genres because when you're a gay boy
living in a rural Village kissing
another boy is very scary and it also
seems that the summer Hikaru died
explores many of these same
Horrors even though whatever has
replaced his friend speaks with that
voice and projects those emotions yosiki
is left in mourning regardless caught
between everything is different and
nothing has
changed yoshiki grapples with the fact
that Hikaru still acts normal while he
feels that he has lost something that he
will never get back this new iaru though
he smiles laughs and cries just like his
predecessor is not the same the thing
that replaced dearu has adopted all
hau's memories and feelings
pragmatically this zaru ought to be no
different different than the previous
one yoshiki is unsure if he can go on
with his life without a clear answer
though no matter how much yoshiki wishes
this thing were still
Hikaru some things are just off
especially at first he exhibits an
unnatural enthusiasm from mundane
experiences and even kind-hearted
animals cower in his presence but the
thing that replaced Dadu is just so
thankful for his friend's
acceptance for yoshiki to show kindness
to someone like him however yoshiki
grapples internally he questions his own
sanity for embracing this being this
entity that once was his friend his
disqui only intensifies when some towns
folk react to Hikaru as if he were the
very monster that had taken residence
within him it's important to note that
this new U never harmed the real one
while some may be hesitant to trust a
monster this is confirmed in a flashback
the original Hikaru dying alone in the
forest had pleaded for someone to
protect
yoshiki and that's when this enigmatic
Spirit inhabited his body now it carries
the warmth and love Hikaru felt for
yoshiki vowing to safeguard him by any
means
necessary the thing that replaced iaru
lacks the social awareness of being a
born and raised human and declares the
feelings that the previous iaru had kept
hidden from yoshiki that he's crazy for
him which ought to betray any doubt that
Hikaru is gay or gay
questioning while it is not a specific
classification on this part the phrasing
and context of this line says all that
it needs
to subtlety shouldn't need to be
specific to be apparent what isn't
subtle is that there is something much
darker and more ominous lurking in this
quaint little town than our sweet eadu
the forest covered Mountain itself is
alive teeming with Spirits some far less
benign than the one residing in this boy
when a group of their school friends
take a shortcut through the forest one
day they feel uneasy especially y
Shiki there's an ominous presence
watching them drawing
nearer it lunges Ed yoshiki attempting
to possess him but garu steps in
absorbing the spirit battling it to
Shield his
friend the fight even makes his nose
bleed iaru warns yoshiki about spirits
that they're lonely and latch onto
anyone who gazes upon them he advises
yoshiki to avoid looking at any Spirits
except for him yet Hikaru is not as
Adept at concealing his Secrets as he
believes one of their friends a girl
named oo senses something a Miss she
can't quite put her finger on it but she
knows that aaru's nose bleed was no
random occurrence curiosity naing at him
yoshiki longs to understand how Hikaru
took the spirit inside of him unable to
convey it verbally yaru decides to
demonstrate it physically when they are
alone he exposes a dark slit in his
chest inviting yoshiki to plunge his
hand
inside the spirit beyond the form of igu
is tumultuous chaotic and cold a
sensation yoshiki Compares towards raw
chicken and marinade Hikaru finds great
pleasure in the feeling of a warm body a
sensation he cannot even recall having
as a spirit unexpectedly he draws the
arm deeper inside of him sending yoshiki
into a panic reeling away Hikaru laughs
and tries to assure yoshiki that he was
never in any harm he was just Hing
around this is a pivotal scene for
framing the whole of the series and
cementing this story is not only
containing gay characters but presenting
gay
experiences without being explicit this
scene portrays a representation of
sexual
experimentation while U's enjoyment is
apparent yoshiki is confused as to
whether he likes the sensation or not
hiu while abiding by consent does push
boundaries a bit too fast for yoshiki
moving at different speeds is also a
Hallmark of developing queer identity
to yoshiki there is an element of danger
with this and this danger articulates an
ongoing theme in the series about the
thing that repaced iaru should we be
afraid of it or not because an act of
iaru just playing
around is a horror to yoshiki regardless
that garu himself is aware of the
difference between play and harm yoshiki
does not know the limitations and
abilities of this spirit it being
harmless and meaning no harm are two
different things a question that
persistently looms over the head of the
thing that replaced Hikaru these
anxieties compound within yoshiki in
addition to his questions of whether he
can think of the thing that replaced
iaru as
Hikaru he now has questions about his
own feelings for
himself in the fever of this internal
struggle he has a chance encounter with
a woman from town she does not recognize
him but she recognizes something about
him she reveals that she used to sense
an ominous presence emanating from the
mountainous Forest the very mountains
where iaru met his end however she
remarks that the malevolence that once
resided far away has now crossed into
the
village and she spies that this
malevolence has touched
yoshiki expressing concern for him she
explains that as human draw closer to
the spirits and the realm of spirits
they become
mixed she warns that yoshiki is doomed
if he continues his entanglement with
the thing that replaced
taru the first of a series of warnings
against mixing with others who should
remain separate this Revelation deepens
yoshiki's disqui around garu though
guilt gnaws at him whenever they're
together for iaru is unfailingly kind
professing that just being near yoshiki
brings him Joy but that's not a mutual
feeling for yoshiki the way Hikaru looks
sounds talks it's all
Hikaru but he's not Hikaru but the
spirit can't let yoshiki go because he
feels everything iaru felt he liked him
too
much his feelings for yoshiki were so
strong that even after death they
remained and they bind the spirit to him
terrified yoshiki demands that iaru
leave him be claiming he no longer needs
him this send iaru spiraling into
despair questioning why he isn't enough
what's really so different about him
he's the same person more or less only
one thing has changed and it's not even
something most people can
see he just doesn't want yoshiki to hate
him the next day yoshiki
apologizes in tears iaru tells yoshiki
he just wants to be near him that's all
that's all that he needs to please just
not hate him instead of forsaking his
friend yoshiki opts to stand by hikaru's
side heedless of the ominous warnings he
has received the once fearful animals
gradually warm up to iaru and he joins
yoshiki and his younger sister at a
Summer Festival just like any ordinary
kid but has to turn back when he comes
up against the to gate blocking the
spirit from entering the Shinto Shrine
so yoshiki gets some shaved ice for both
of them and they eat it outside the gate
there yoshiki reveals something to iaru
that his friend didn't know that he'd
actually
seenu's dead body the stormy night he
went missing yoshiki trudged out into
the rain marching through the forest
until he found his friend's body
unresponsive the trauma left him
bedridden for days and when he finally
came around iaru was
alive this knew Hikaru was alive he
grieved the loss of his closest friend
for days before finding out that he was
still here in some
way he thought it was a
dream but even now sitting next to iadu
as he is he misses his old friend in
response iaru pledges to yoshiki that
although he may never truly replace the
original he will always cherish and
protect him however at this point in the
manga we take a departure from the tale
to uncover a council of individuals well
versed in the spiritual happenings of
the
area something known as kubit ASI's
burden has escaped the confines of the
forest and infiltrated the
town as a result they've enlisted the
services of an expert to investigate
this phenomenon firsthand This spells
danger for iaru and also yoshiki the
pair begin growing close again yoshiki
even puts his hand in hikaru's body once
more this time permitting himself to
wonder if it does feel good in spite of
telling himself it ought to feel wrong
but getting this close to iaru might be
dangerous According to some it might
attract other things from the spiritual
side toward Yoshi
things more dangerous and unpredictable
than his smiling
friend like some sort of demon lurking
in yoshiki shower drain that attacks his
little sister a demon iaru promises to
deal with but when iaru seems to be
taking too long yoshiki becomes worried
and comes to rescue him the demon takes
the opportunity to Lunge into yoshiki
take over his mind and forces him to try
and drown garu the demon is expelled and
escapes giving yoshiki a glimpse into
the danger that Spirits present as Time
Marches On the Council of Village Elders
redoubles their efforts to unearth the
truth behind the elusive Forest Spirits
Escape one fateful night amidst a
gathering of friends iaru and yoshiki
find themselves separated leaving iaru
alone with oo the young girl delves into
memories of iaru from before his
mysterious disappearance and then poses
a daunting question to the new
hiu who exactly are you oo has a family
history of sensing Spirits some may see
them as faint Shadows but oako can hear
them even though she can sense that
there is something paranormal about
Hikaru she does not fear Him she recalls
an experience where she encountered an
invisible Spirit calling for her
attention on a village road trying
trying to live by her family's rules of
remaining separate from Spirits she
eventually realized that this Spirit was
trying to warn her her best friend was
crossing a blind corner where a driver
was
speeding the spirit saved her friend's
life while other characters who are
aware of spirits believe that not all
Spirits are malevolent they hold the
caveat that because some are
dangerous that we must be suspicious of
all of them oo simply does not have this
Outlook
instead showing a willingness to allow
the spirit to show its true
colors just as she affords the same
opportunity to the thing that replaced
yaru noticing for the first time that
she can see him differently than the
others the thing that replace dearu
tries to show her his true form that
which he can only describe to yoshiki
perhaps she can see him for what he
truly is stripped of the physical form
he does after all repeatedly mention
that Spirits are lonely
and long to be seen is he truly so
different their connection while brief
causes oo to collapse just as yoshiki is
in view in a frantic State he fears that
Hikaru may have killed her the thing
that replaced Hikaru expresses confusion
at these anxieties he struggles to grasp
the distinction between life and death
not a foreign concept to him entirely
but he simply sees no empirical
difference between something Al alive
and the same thing while dead thankfully
oo regains Consciousness having merely
fainted remarkably her first concern
isn't for her own well-being but for
hikaru's she recognizes that he's been
possessed and seems willing to help but
yoshiki cannot bear the weight of it all
and decides to depart leaving yaru to
ponder the profound questions of life
and death alone yaru wrestles with
existential questions contemplating the
meaning of being alive he dreads the
thought of losing those he cares about
especially yoshiki he's uncertain
whether his thoughts are truly his own
or remnants of the old IU's
Consciousness lingering within him what
he fears most is that he may have
irreparably driven yoshiki away however
when yoshiki unexpectedly appears
ataru's doorstep on Monday offering to
take him to school Hikaru is both
astonished and elated did to his
compounded Delight yoshiki proposes to
cut class and embark on a day of fun
together they visit the movie Savor
popsicles and spend time reading manga
for the first time since aaru's
transformation it feels like yoshiki is
making an Earnest effort to bring
happiness into aaru's life reminiscent
of the days of their youth before aaru's
apparent demise and the arrival of the
new Hikaru yet yoshiki's intentions take
a a shocking and brutal turn as he
plunges a knife into hikaru's abdomen
his plan was to Grant iaru one final day
of Joy before ending his
existence but iaru does not succumb
aaru's physical form does not have the
same limitations as a normal human
overwhelmed by despair yoshiki realizes
that things can never return to the way
they were this new Karu will not release
him from his
grief consequently he implores iaru to
kill him instead iaru chooses to
demonstrate his trust for yoshiki by
giving himself a mortal vulnerability
reaching into himself he pulls roughly
half of his Spirit from his body and
condenses it into a small stone for
yoshiki to
keep VI ikaru Spirit now small enough to
be harmed by lethal Force he hopes
yoshiki can trust him
deciding to move forward as friends the
boys stand before another hurdle to
truly trust each other they need to know
what the thing that replaced iaru
was before it became iaru the why and
how are already known yoshiki takes the
fragment of aaru's spirit and decides to
help him find out what he really is
during their
investigation they discovered that their
little village called Mount Hope was
once part of a much larger
domain but near the end of the Ido
period split into the five smaller
Villages it exists as today the split
was caused by famine economic strife and
a number of strange unexplainable deaths
locals attribute those deaths now to the
Lord brain
snatcher a malevolent God within the
mountainous Forest that plagued the
people of the domain but it's believed
to have been trapped within the
boundaries of the forest ever since the
famine like the deaths might have
actually been sacrifices in a protective
ritual against it and aaru's family for
centuries have been the Protectors of
the
boundary going into the mountains to
conduct a ritual that would keep solid
the barrier between the realm of the
Lord brain snatcher and the human world
but when Hikaru died performing it and
then came
back he brought something back with
him is Hikaru the Lord brain
snatcher or is he something
else this as of
now is where the story has left off we
can see Hikaru as dead possessed by an
impostor but shunning this new creature
doesn't change the fact that the
original Hikaru is gone alternative L we
can observe this spirit's intervention
as a chance encounter to allow Hikaru to
live
on I consider the latter more
optimistic aren't people always changing
anyway a person cannot walk through the
same river
twice they're no longer the same person
nor is it the same river what is this
possession but another albeit radical
form of
change the alternative is that iaru
stays dead the lingering question
hanging in the air is the mystery of
intention what is this story trying to
say perhaps it's as indicative of queer
experiences as I've outlined indeed it
is focused on a queer character but how
does the author plan on moralizing
this what should we do about the monster
is the monster even something to be
feared or is this a looming cautionary
Tale about mixing with the others this
is information we do not as of yet have
mangas are notorious for their anonymity
and for good reason for manga what is on
the page is what is intended to be read
everything else is what you bring and
take away from
it only as the tale unfolds will we
understand it all and what this has to
say about mixing that depends entirely
on what Hikaru is
is Hikaru truly the Lord brain
snatcher there are many spirits perhaps
he is another after all the Elder
Council references kubachi burden is
this the brain snatcher or something
else a protective Force created to keep
the evil spirits within the dark domain
of the Mountain Forest perhaps this is
what Hikaru is instead however I choose
to believe the resolution will support a
mixing of human and spirit
they are not without vulnerabilities and
we are not without
strengths after all there are various
humans in this story who generate as
much or more threat than the lonely
needy
spirits and there are some who are even
as hostile and chaotic as the malicious
ones we fear the spirits only because we
are not familiar with their
intentions in English we have a phrase
better than the devil you know I
generally prefer to trust creators and
people in Creative fields for having the
best of intentions for leaning toward
social growth and acceptance leaning
towards
mixing at least until they show their
true colors
otherwise art speaks to a need for human
connection
anthropologically the role of art Across
The Human Experience is to bring people
together through universalities of life
and
existence
biography or allegory make no difference
the goal is
connection to be seen and to see another
to find joy in commonalities to
normalize what the divisive nature of
society considers
taboo art for the sake of division or
isolation is of no use to
us perhaps it cannot even be called art
art meant to warn people against the
other is Art that's intention is
divisive not connective art meant to
unite one group of people just to
exclude another is to Pander to the
archaic days of human tribalism for
which thousands of years of art have
been tirelessly trying to
correct perhaps because I recognize a
connection between this halfway dead boy
his confused best friend and a world
which wants to keep them
part I see this example of art trying to
argue that our need to connect is
stronger than our ability to
separate and instead of shunning what we
don't understand or what we fear iaru
will teach us to show
empathy compassion and patience to those
who are
different who don't fit
in and even those who are by
many considered
monsters this video was brought to you
by Squarespace Squarespace is an
all-in-one web design and hosting
platform that makes it easy for you to
create a website and Market your brand
with industry-leading website templates
that are easy to customize you don't
need any design experience to show the
world your best digital self Squarespace
also makes it easy to keep in touch with
your audience or customers with their
expertly designed email templates that
are just as easy to customize as their
websites you can follow up with
customers or keep your audience in the
loop with your latest updates that's why
we're launching a newsletter with
certain social media sites going the way
of the dodo we wanted a way to keep in
touch with our amazing subscribers and
Squarespace gives us the perfect way to
do that in fact you can sign up for our
newsletter right now which will include
links to new videos progress updates for
T's pictures as well as reviews articles
and so much more you can sign up at our
Squarespace website jameson.com and you
can head to squarespace.com right now
for a free trial and when you're ready
to launch your site just go to
squarespace.com
James that's J M SS to save 10% off of
your first purchase of a website or a
domain take control of your online voice
today with
Squarespace
[Music]
oh